<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="Cerberus-match-guide">
  <title>Cerberus Match Guide</title>
  <shortdesc>This guide outlines Cerberus’s care needs, temperament, and compatibility to help determine if you and Cerberus are a good match.  
    A strong match ensures long-term success for both dog and caregiver.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
    <title>Ideal Home Environment</title>
    <p>Cerberus thrives in calm, structured environments. He benefits from consistent routines and companionship throughout the day.
    A house with a secure yard works best. Cerberus is not suited to apartment living. 
    </p>
    <p><b>Best fit:</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>Access to outdoor space</li>
        <li>Quiet, predictable routines</li>
        <li>Human presence during most of the day</li>
      </ul>
  </section>
  <section>
    <title>Energy Compatibility</title>
    <p>Cerberus brings enthusiasm and a strong working drive. He needs regular movement, stimulation, and shared purpose. Daily walks, play, and short training sessions help him feel settled and engaged.</p>
    <p><b>Care includes:</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>60+ minutes of activity each day</li>
        <li>Toys and games that challenge his mind</li>
        <li>Consistent feedback and clear direction</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Experience Level</title>
    <p>Cerberus responds to steady, confident leadership. With guidance, he adapts 
    well and enjoys learning. Experienced handlers and new adopters who commit to 
    structure and support can succeed with him.</p>
    
    <p><b>Caregiver strengths:</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>Clear boundaries and consistency</li>
        <li>Commitment to ongoing training</li>
        <li>Calm and attentive presence</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Household Compatibility</title>
    <p>Cerberus does best in adult-only homes or with children over 5 years old. 
    He prefers environments free from overstimulation. 
    His high prey drive makes cat-free homes ideal. 
    He may live well with a calm, balanced dog after a careful introduction.
    </p>
      
    <p><b>Additional needs:</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>Time and space to decompress</li>
        <li>Consistent structure to build trust</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Medical and Health Overview</title>
    <p>Cerberus maintains overall good health. Gentle care helps him continue to build confidence and strength.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Treated for fleas on intake</li>
        <li>Not neutered yet; recommended at 12–18 months</li>
        <li>Healing paw scrapes (as of July 6, 2025)</li>
        <li>Sensitive to hot pavement</li>
        <li>Recovering from kennel cough</li>
        <li>Healed bite on ear</li>
      </ul>
    <p>For Cerberus's full medical and health overview, see the <xref href="Reference-Cerberus-Health-and-Vaccination-Record.dita"/></p>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Feeding and Food Habits</title>
    <p>Cerberus eats well and responds to food as a training tool. He enjoys a steady routine and a balanced diet.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Two meals daily of dry kibble</li>
        <li>Likes yogurt, peanut butter, broths, and watermelon</li>
        <li>Fast eater and drinker (slow feeder recommended)</li>
        <li>Begs at the table but is not fed from it</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Temperament and Activity</title>
    <p>Cerberus is alert, affectionate, and playful. He builds bonds quickly and shows joy when given shared tasks.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Active and eager to engage</li>
        <li>Protective instincts; good alertness</li>
        <li>Needs structured walks and mental games</li>
        <li>Enjoys treat balls, squeaky toys, beach balls</li>
        <li>Not responsive to frisbees</li>
        <li>Supervision recommended during soft toy play</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Socialization and Daily Life</title>
    <p>Cerberus connects deeply and thrives in homes with structure. He values routine, activity, and companionship.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Wakes up at 6 a.m., potty break, fetch, breakfast at 7 a.m., then bowel movement</li>
        <li>Loves children (above 5-8 years old)</li>
        <li>Trained to give hugs, doesn’t jump up</li>
        <li>Learning personal boundaries</li>
        <li>Pack-oriented; enjoys daycare and dog companions</li>
        <li>Dislikes crates and long periods alone</li>
        <li>Not compatible with cats</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Training Needs</title>
    <p>Cerberus shows strong potential and benefits from structured, positive reinforcement.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Currently in formal training with Lydia Register (AAS, CPDT-KA)</li>
        <li>High prey drive (squirrels, rabbits, small dogs)</li>
        <li>Can jump up on cue</li>
      </ul>
    <note>Lydia Register will offer discounted training sessions to Cerberus's future adopter. For more information, see </note>
    
    <p>Training success depends on:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Positive reinforcement</li>
        <li>Daily, clear communication</li>
        <li>Avoidance of punishment-based methods</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Lifestyle Fit Scenarios</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Remote or hybrid worker: Excellent match for consistent engagement</li>
        <li>Active adult or couple: Good fit for shared activity and bonding</li>
        <li>Retiree with routine: Works well if structured and attentive</li>
        <li>High-traffic or chaotic home: Not a good match</li>
        <li>Confined living space (i.e., apartment): Not a good match</li>
      </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Summary</title>
    <p>Cerberus is energetic, trainable, and full of heart. He builds trust with presence, structure, and mutual respect. 
    Cerberus is a loyal and intelligent companion ready to grow alongside you.</p>
  </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
