<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="Foster-Agency-Fact-Sheet">
  <title>Fact Sheet: How This Project Supports Foster Agencies</title>
  <shortdesc>
    This fact sheet explains how the Cerberus Adoption Project makes it easier for foster agencies 
    to manage dogs like Cerberus, streamline adoptions, and reduce administrative work.
  </shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Purpose</title>
      <p>This project centralizes all of Cerberus’s adoption and care information in one place.
        Foster agencies can use it as a template to save time, improve communication, and ensure
        adopters are fully prepared. </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>What’s Included</title>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Adoption Inquiry Form:</b> Standardized intake form to collect complete adopter info upfront.</li>
        <li><b>Behavior Logs and Medical Records:</b> Editable templates that keep all history organized.</li>
        <li><b>Step-by-Step Guides:</b> Tasks on house prep, decompression, introductions, and troubleshooting.</li>
        <li><b>Foster and Volunteer Contact Sheet:</b> Quick-access directory for internal use.</li>
        <li><b>Enrichment and Training Resources:</b> Frozen treat recipes, crate training guides, and more.</li>
        <li><b>PDF and Web Versions:</b> Materials can be shared digitally or printed.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>How It Makes Your Job Easier</title>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Reduces back-and-forth:</b> Adopters get all the info they need upfront.</li>
        <li><b>Saves time:</b> Ready-made templates prevent rewriting instructions for every dog.</li>
        <li><b>Improves consistency:</b> Every foster and adopter receives the same high-quality guidance.</li>
        <li><b>Builds trust:</b> Clear, professional materials make adopters feel supported and prepared.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>How to Use This Resource</title>
      <p>Agencies can adopt the project as is or adapt it for specific dogs. All topics are
        structured in modular sections (health, training, adoption forms), so you can use what you
        need and skip what you don’t. </p>
      <p>If needed, send the web version to adopters or print the PDF version for in-person
        adoptions. </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Contact for Questions or Updates</title>
      <p>For questions about using or adapting this project, contact the project lead: <b>[Maria
          Haque - mariahaque35@gmail.com]</b>
      </p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
