<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="Common-Housing-Questions">
  <title>Common Housing Questions</title>
  <shortdesc>
    This reference answers the most common questions about preparing your home for Cerberus. 
  </shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Q: Do I need a house with a yard to adopt Cerberus?</title>
      <p>
        A: Yes, Cerberus is best suited to houses with backyards to allow him to meet his daily activity needs. 
        He needs at least 60 minutes of combined walking and play every day, i.e., two 30-minute walks a day. 
        If you have a yard, ensure it is fully fenced with no gaps or weak spots.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: How long can Cerberus be left alone?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus does best when someone is home for part of the day. 
        If you work full-time, arrange a midday potty break with a dog walker, neighbor, 
        or doggy daycare. He should not be left alone for more than 4–5 hours without a break.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: Does Cerberus need a crate?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus does not enjoy being in a crate for long periods and may feel stressed if confined. 
        A soft-sided crate or a quiet “safe area” can be used for short rest periods, but a gated room or playpen is often a better option. 
      </p>
      <p>
        For tips and alternatives, see the 
        <xref href="Task-How-to-Crate-Train.dita">Crate Training Guide</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: How should I set up my home before Cerberus arrives?</title>
      <p>
        A: Prepare a calm space with his bed, bowls, and toys ready. 
        Remove anything he might chew (cords, shoes, small objects). Secure trash, cleaning supplies, 
        and medications so they are out of reach.  
      </p>
      <p>
        For a full checklist, see the <xref href="Task-How-to-Prepare-Your-House-for-a-Dog.dita">House Preparation Guide</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: Can Cerberus live with cats or other small pets?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus is not compatible with cats and has a strong prey drive. 
        Small pets must have fully secure enclosures and be closely supervised if they are in the same home.  
      </p>
      <p>
        For more details, see the 
        <xref href="Task-How-to-Introduce-Cerberus-to-a-Cat.dita">Cat and Cerberus Introduction Guide</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: Can Cerberus live with another dog?</title>
      <p>
        A: Possibly. Cerberus may do well with a calm, balanced dog after slow, careful introductions.  
        Success depends on the other dog’s temperament and the adopter’s ability to manage the process.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: What if my home situation is different from these examples?</title>
      <p>
        A: Every home is unique. If you have questions about your specific setup, 
        please reach out to the foster team at christinaemayr@gmail.com for guidance.   
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: What are Cerberus’s exercise needs if I work long hours?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus needs at least 60 minutes of combined daily exercise.  
        If you work long hours, consider arranging a midday dog walker or daycare.  
        A longer walk or play session before and after work will also help him feel balanced.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: How do I introduce Cerberus to children?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus does best in adult-only homes or with children over five years old.  
        Always supervise interactions, teach children to respect Cerberus's space, and avoid hugging or rough play.
        For more information on how to introduce Cerberus to children, watch the <xref href="Reference-training-video.dita">Cerberus training videos</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: How should I handle visitors coming to my home?</title>
      <p>
        A: Cerberus can be protective of his space. Keep him leashed or behind a gate  
        during arrivals and reward calm behavior as guests enter. Give him time to adjust at his own pace.
        For more information on how to introduce Cerberus to visitors, watch the <xref href="Reference training video">Cerberus training videos</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: Can Cerberus handle stairs or open spaces?</title>
      <p>
        A: Yes, but supervise him around open staircases or elevated spaces.  
        Block access with baby gates if you’re not confident about safety.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Q: How much time should I plan to spend at home during the first weeks?</title>
      <p>
        A: Plan to be home as much as possible in the first 1–2 weeks to help Cerberus decompress and  
        learn his routine. Gradually increase time away once he’s more settled.
      </p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
