<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="submit-adoption-inquiry">
  <title>How to Submit an Adoption Inquiry</title>
  <shortdesc>
    Start Cerberus's adoption process by applying through Adopt-a-Pet using the official application link. If you cannot access the platform, you may email the foster team with the same information.
  </shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Read Cerberus's Profile Thoroughly</cmd>
        <info>
          Review Cerberus’s full biography, behavior notes, and care needs to ensure compatibility before applying.
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Submit Your Application on Adopt-a-Pet</cmd>
        <info>
          Complete the application at  
          <xref href="https://rehome.adoptapet.com/adopters/application/4702523/step-1" class="- topic/xref " scope="external" format="html">
            Adopt-a-Pet: Cerberus’s Adoption Application
          </xref>.  
          This is the fastest and preferred way to start the process.  
          <note>The current adoption fee is $100.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If You Cannot Apply Online, Send an Email Instead</cmd>
        <info>
          If you are unable to access Adopt-a-Pet, email the foster team at christinaemayr@gmail.com with the following information:
          <ul>
            <li>Your full name and location (city, state)</li>
            <li>A brief introduction about yourself and household members (including other pets)</li>
            <li>Why you feel Cerberus would be a good fit for your home</li>
            <li>Housing situation</li>
            <li>Any relevant experience with dogs or high-energy breeds</li>
          </ul>
          <note>Include photos of your home or yard if possible. This helps the team assess suitability.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Wait for a Response</cmd>
        <info>
          A foster coordinator or volunteer will follow up within 2–3 business days.  
          They may ask clarifying questions or suggest next steps (screening call, home check, or meet-and-greet).
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <postreq>
      <p><b>Tips for Success</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>Be honest and specific. The goal isn’t to “pass,” but to find the right match.</li>
        <li>Don’t worry if your setup isn’t perfect. Many issues can be supported with guidance.</li>
        <li>If you’re unsure about adopting but want to learn more, say so in your message.</li>
      </ul>
      <p><b>For Foster Organizations</b></p>
      <p>
        You can reuse or adapt this text for adoption listings or email templates.  
        It helps standardize applications, reduce back-and-forth, and makes it easier to assess fit before proceeding.
      </p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>