<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="post-adoption-troubleshooting">
  <title>How to Troubleshoot Post-Adoption Issues</title>

  <shortdesc>
    This guide helps adopters and foster caregivers respond calmly and effectively to common challenges in Cerberus’s first days or weeks, including aggression, anxiety, food refusal, and more. 
    It provides step-by-step guidance to de-escalate behavior and stabilize trust without punishment or surrender.
  </shortdesc>

  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Normalize the “Decompression Phase” (First 3–14 Days)</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Expect Cerberus to be more withdrawn, overstimulated, or reactive, even if he seemed calm before.</li>
            <li>Avoid overwhelming him with new people, parks, or pets. Keep the routine quiet and consistent.</li>
            <li>If his behavior seems “off,” slow things down and avoid adding new stressors.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>If Aggression Occurs (Growling, Lunging, Snapping)</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Stay still and quiet. Do not reach toward him.</li>
            <li>Remember: aggression is often fear-based or a form of boundary-setting, not a sign he is “bad”.</li>
            <li>Note what triggered it: sudden touch? A loud noise? Resource guarding? Proximity to another pet?</li>
            <li>Do not punish or yell. Give him space. Remove the trigger if it is safe to do so.</li>
            <li>Use a calm, low voice and redirect him to a safe zone or crate (if conditioned).</li>
            <li>Document the incident: date, trigger, duration, and recovery time.</li>
            <li>If it happens repeatedly, contact the foster organization for support.</li>
          </ul>
          <note>Track Cerberus's behaviour in the <xref href="Reference-Behaviour-Log.dita">Behaviour Log</xref>.</note>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>If Anxiety Arises (Panting, Whining, Destructive Behavior)</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Confirm his physical needs are met (exercise, potty, food, sleep).</li>
            <li>Use a calming environment: soft lighting, low noise, avoid eye contact or fast movements.</li>
            <li>Play calming music or dog-calming YouTube tracks.</li>
            <li>Offer a treat-stuffed toy, frozen lick mat, or safe chew to redirect.</li>
            <li>Avoid leaving him alone for long periods early on.</li>
            <li>Use a consistent phrase like “All done” when leaving to create predictability.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>If Food Refusal Occurs</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Do not panic. Many dogs refuse food for 24–72 hours in a new home.</li>
            <li>Offer meals in a quiet, low-distraction area and avoid hovering over him.</li>
            <li>Try hand-feeding a few bites, then set the bowl down.</li>
            <li>If dry food is ignored, mix in a small amount of warm water, canned food, or broth.</li>
            <li>Remove uneaten food after 20 minutes and try again later.</li>
            <li>Track water intake. Hydration is more important than food early on.</li>
            <li>If he does not eat for 48+ hours and shows low energy or vomiting, contact a vet.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Track Behavior Patterns Over Time</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Use a <xref href="Reference-Behaviour-Log.dita">Behaviour Log</xref> to record:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>Triggers and what calmed him</li>
            <li>Eating, sleeping, and bathroom habits</li>
            <li>Reactions to new people or pets</li>
            <li>Daily wins, even small ones</li>
          </ul>
          <p>Share updates with the foster team. Consistent patterns matter more than one-off moments.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>When to Escalate or Ask for Support</p>
      <p>If any of the following persist beyond 7–10 days:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Unprovoked biting or escalating aggression</li>
        <li>Extreme withdrawal or cowering</li>
        <li>No eating for 2+ days</li>
        <li>Inability to sleep or settle for hours at a time</li>
        <li>Harmful self-soothing (chewing paws, spinning)</li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>Cerberus is in his toddler phase (cute and a bit anxious!), so he is still settling in and learning the basics. 
        He already knows the command "down" and "watch". He is working on the command 'sit' after a successful leash evaluation. 
        Like many young dogs, he can get excited during play and may jump up or nip, but with positive reinforcement and consistent training, he is making progress. 
        He is currently in training with a professional dog trainer. </p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>