<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="adopt-cerberus">
  <title>How to Adopt Cerberus</title>
  <shortdesc>This guide shows you the full adoption process for Cerberus, from first application to final adoption, so you know exactly what to expect.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Step 1: Explore and Self-Screen</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Read Cerberus's <xref href="Concept-Cerberus-Match-Guide.dita">Dog Match Guide</xref> to understand his energy, social preferences, and structure needs.</li>
            <li>Assess your lifestyle: schedule, living space, pets, family dynamics.</li>
            <li>Cerberus is not a good match for first-time dog owners or homes with cats and children under five years old. Ideally, adopters should already have experience with a high-energy dog.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 2: Submit an Adoption Inquiry at Adopt-a-Pet</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Complete the form at https://rehome.adoptapet.com/adopters/application/4702523/step-1, sharing honest details about your home, experience with dogs, other pets, routines, and why Cerberus appeals to you.</li>
            <li> For a step-by-step guide on how to submit an adoption inquiry form, see <xref href="Task-How-to-Submit-an-Adoption-Inquiry.dita">the Adoption Inquiry Form Guide</xref>.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 3: Initial Screening</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>A volunteer or foster coordinator will follow up within 2-3 business days to clarify your responses, discuss Cerberus’s care needs (energy, training, supervision), and answer your questions.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 4: Meet and Greet</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Meet Cerberus in person or virtually, ideally with all household members present.</li>
            <li>Household introductions should be done on-leash, starting outside with playtime and rewards, then moving inside once he is calm.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 5: Home Safety Check</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Foster agents will check for secure fencing, safe indoor zones, and no cat/small-pet conflicts.</li>
            <li>Cerberus likes to chew on stuffed animals and items made of rubber, silicone, wood, and plastic, so be sure to remove or secure these items.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 6: Trial or Foster-to-Adopt Period</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>When possible, begin with a 7–14 day trial to gauge how Cerberus adapts to your home and routine.</li>
            <li>For the first 24 hours, keep Cerberus in a small room for decompression.</li>
            <li>Introduce Cerberus to family routines on the second day, then slowly introduce family members, and, finally, other pets.</li>
            <li>During the trial period, expect some behavioral issues that are currently being addressed in training.</li>
            <li>Support and check-ins are included.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Step 7: Final Adoption</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>If the trial is successful, you will finalize the adoption by signing the adoption agreement and submitting the adoption fee through Adopt-a-Pet, which helps cover Cerberus’s care and veterinary costs.</li>
            <li>You’ll receive Cerberus’s full medical and behavioral records, daily routine guide, training logs, and key contact information for ongoing support.</li>
            <li>Recommended Post-adoption follow-ups ideally occur at 1 week, 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, and 6 months.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
