<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="How-to-make-frozen-treats">
<title>How to Make Frozen Treats for Cerberus</title>

<shortdesc>Offer Cerberus a calming, mentally stimulating activity that also supports digestion and routine. These frozen treats are helpful during crate time, transitions, or when he’s extra energetic and needs a healthy outlet.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Ingredients</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Plain Greek yogurt (unsweetened)</li>
          <li>Natural peanut butter (xylitol-free)</li>
          <li>Plain pumpkin purée</li>
          <li>Dry kibble (same food as his regular meals)</li>
        </ul>
        <note>
        Peanut butter is Cerberus's favourite ingredient and helps him stay calm. 
        </note>
      <p>Tools You’ll Need</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Mixing bowl and spoon</li>
          <li>Ice cube tray, silicone mold, or Kong</li>
          <li>Freezer-safe container</li>
        </ul>
    </prereq>
      <steps>
        <step>
          <cmd>Mix the Base.</cmd>
            <info>
              <ul>
                <li>Combine yogurt, peanut butter, and pumpkin in a bowl.</li>
                <li>Stir in Cerberus’s kibble or treats.</li>
              </ul>
              <note>
              Aim for a thick but spoonable texture for the base.
              The kibble or treats give a satisfying crunch.
              </note>
            </info>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Fill Molds or Kong.</cmd>
            <info>
              <ul>
                <li>Scoop the mix into your container of choice.</li> 
              </ul>
              <note>For a Kong, layer mix–kibble–mix so he stays engaged longer.</note>
            </info>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Place in the freezer for at least 3 hours or overnight.</cmd>
        </step>
    </steps>
    <postreq>
      <p>Serve Thoughtfully</p>
      <p>Give him a frozen treat during crate time, when guests arrive, or after a long walk.</p>
      <note>
      Cerberus enjoys the treats most after his afternoon walk (around 3 p.m.).
      Cerberus can get overexcited and gulp the treats, so a little supervision is needed.
      </note>
      <p>Optional swaps</p>
        <ul>
          <li>A bit of low-sodium broth (if picky)</li>
          <li>Mashed banana (for sweetness)</li>
          <li>Small pieces of frozen watermelon</li>
        </ul>
      <p>Why Treats Help Cerberus</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Keeps him mentally engaged when bored.</li>
          <li>Encourages calm chewing (which soothes anxiety)</li>
          <li>Slows down eating if he’s overexcited</li>
          <li>Adds hydration and digestive support from the pumpkin</li>
        </ul>
      <p>Storage</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Freeze batches ahead and store in a sealed bag or container.</li>
          <li>Use within 2 weeks.</li>
        </ul>
      <p>Tips</p>
        <ul>
          <li>If he loses interest, soften the mix with broth or let it thaw for a few minutes.</li>
          <li>Always count frozen treats toward his daily food intake.</li>
          <li>For crate training, prep one in advance and hand it over as soon as he enters calmly.</li>
        </ul>
        <note>
          Cerberus has tried stuffed bones and lick mats, but he tends to tear apart the rubber lick mats.
        </note>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>